Anrealage Spring 2018: Paris Fashion Week

For his latest collection, designer Kunihiko Morinaga focused on the relationship among clothes, the human body, and physical power.

Perhaps one of the most ubiquitous driving forces in the world is power. 
Though we cannot always see it, power, much like light and shadow, exists all around us – manifested through human exertion, the will of a nation, or the clothes we put on our backs.


As we go through our daily routines, we are constantly putting tension on the clothes we wear. This tension then imbibes our clothes with a sort of physical power, which Morinaga has set out to visualize through light.
Mechanochromic technology is used as a sensory tool in architectural structures to detect and visualize cracks – sites of stress or tension – on a building through a phenomenon which turns this tension into light.

This mechanochromic technology has been applied to the clothing to turn kinetic energy into light; in other words, visualizing power through light.

For ANREALAGE, power is personified by Wonder Woman. A beacon of light and strength, she represents the body in peak form, empowered through divine and physical conditioning.
Material and Form
BODY
A series of garments whose forms nod to the enhanced physical attributes of a body-builder.

TENSION
Military t-shirts, logo t-shirts, knits and shirts upsized 300% are subjected to pressure by elastic material.

KINESIOLOGY TAPE
Designs are inspired by kinesiology tape that supports the body to improve physical performance. Checks and argyle patterns are expressed by these tapes.

POWER SHOULDERS AND SLEEVES
Shoulders and sleeves transformed larger than normal bodily proportions.

CUBEN FIBER
Cuben Fiber is an ultra-light fabric which can float on water but is 15x stronger than iron, often used in protective vests.

MECHANOCHROMIC
Garments that produce light when the wearer moves. The tension on the clothes is visualized through light, which becomes more luminous with more intense movement.


---------------
Fresh Off the Rail Fashion Fest Comes to Houston


resh Off The Rail Fest is a five-day event in Midtown Houston, Texas, held October 16–20, 2017 celebrating the convergence of culture, creativity, and innovation.

Many southern streetwear designers, ready to wear and emerging brands will share their art and vision. The Fashion Week includes runway shows, live creative sessions, presentations and musical performances. With 20 shows and thousands of visitors expected, Fresh Off The Rail Fashion Week is a platform for emerging designers in the street-wear and street style market.

Fresh Off The Rail also has a charitable purpose as they’ve partnered with the City of Houston’s homeless initiative Meaningful Change, where proceeds from the festival will be donated.w

Showcasing designers include:

Negris LeBrum (October 16, 8:00 Ensemble)
Ebony McCan (October 16, 7:00 Ensemble)
Rehan Hameed Thredz (October 16, 7:00 FOTR)
Sa’Dreaka Cavone (October 16, 7:30 FOTR Gallery)
Boss Life Clothing (October 17, 7:00 FOTR Gallery)
Anil Rana Envy Couture (October 17, 7:00 Central Square)
Ashuman Garg Parinaz (October 17, 8:00 Central Square)
Famous and Love (October 17, 8:00 FOTR Gallery)
Texas Southern University (October 18, 7:30)
The Ivory Collection (October 19, 7:00 LEVEL)
QUAD (October 19, 6:00 FOTR Gallery)
Dominque Getter (October 20, 7:30 Central SQ)
Hamza Fashion (October 20, 6:00 Central Square)
Carlos Castillo (October 20, 6:00 Central Square)
Paisley 360 (October 20, 7:00 Central Square)
Stuck Up Girl (October 20, 9:00 Central Square)
Danny Nguyen (October 20, 8:00 Central Square)
-----

Goodman Debut Dries to America’s Fashion Elite

“We think of color,” said Linda Fargo, introducing Dries, a new documentary by Reiner Holzemer that explores the life and work of Dries Van Noten, the Belgian fashion designer and most prominent member of the Antwerp Six. Fargo, the senior vice president of fashion at Bergdorf Goodman—which presented the film’s American debut at the Whitby Hotel on Tuesday night—also cited Van Noten’s creation of “a fashion vernacular that did not exist before,” something she noted was a measure of true contribution not just to the industry but to the art form.
The film itself is an intimate, fascinating portrayal of one of fashion’s most creative but steady personalities. We follow Van Noten over two years of work, interspersed with reflections over his past collections. We go inside his atelier, his office, his factories, and even his home as the director traces a unique vision from inspiration to conception, to fabric choices, to embroidery artisans in India, to rehearsals, to showtime (and the absolute relief afterward, with hugs from his creative partner and life partner, Patrick Vangheluwe).
“I liked the way they silhouetted him watching each of the shows,” said Mallory Andrews, BG’s senior vice president of marketing and PR. She was sitting in the Whitby’s sublime subterranean party chamber—surrounded by the likes of Frédéric Malle, Daphne Javitch, Tonne Goodman, Phyllis Posnick, and Margaret Zhang—just beyond the screening room with its beyond-plush toxic-orange seats; all of it designed by Kit Kemp. Her statement was echoed by Fargo, who reveled in the timelessness of Van Noten’s work: “The collections that you saw, whether they were from 1996 or 2000, I would have been happy to see those walked on the runway last week,” she said.
As for Van Noten, was it not strange for the humble Belgian designer to see a whole film about himself? “Yes. It’s very strange,” he said. “We are very involved with the collections. You don’t always think, There’s someone there behind me with the camera.” For the designer, allowing the camera past his work and into his life was by far the most significant step. “The house and the garden, we keep that private. Patrick and I, we don’t want to publicize stuff like that. But making a film about my creativity, it’s important to show them, because it’s so important for us. And the house and the gardens are reflected in the collections I make.”
In the end, was he happy with what he saw?

-------------------

Honor Is Relaunching With a Sweet, Fairy Tale–Worthy Bridal Collection

New York editors likely remember Giovanna Randall’s label, Honor, for its fairy-tale dresses (Fall ’15 even had forest creature jacquards à la Snow White). Her signature flair for hand-embellishments and sweetness didn’t always lend itself to ready-to-wear’s demands for nonstop deliveries and diverse assortments, so Randall closed that part of her business in 2015. She didn’t leave fashion for good, though; since then, she’s been designing custom eveningwear and working on her first bridal collection, which she’s sharing here with Vogue.
“In ready-to-wear, I always heard, ‘You need to make this, you need more of that, you need a bomber jacket,’ which just wasn’t my passion,” Randall said. “What people always responded to most was the really intricate stuff, and I loved making beautiful, handmade, special pieces here in New York. But not everyone could afford it.” At least, not for their regular wardrobe. But for their wedding day? Totally. “It just seemed more fitting to do custom evening and bridal,” she added. “I did a few bridal collaborations with Stone Fox Bride, and the girls I worked with were so excited to wear Honor again.”
Her bridal collection has everything those Honor girls love, from the unapologetically feminine silhouettes to the custom, super-luxe fabrics. What looks like ironwork lace on a cape is actually hand-embroidered tulle, for instance, and a sheer wildflower motif is a pigment print made with tiny drips of paint. The nipped-waist gowns are a no-brainer for Randall, but she’s also introducing less-expected trousers, tops, and jackets. “When I got married, I wanted to look like a mermaid, but not everyone wants that,” she joked, adding, “I love the idea of wedding pants.” Separates were a big trend this bridal season, and hers range from wide-leg trousers and bustiers to a cropped double-breasted lace jacket, which are mixed and matched with several looks. Even the sweetest dresses can be “styled”: The fluttery tulle sleeves of a slim-fitting gown can be worn normally, with the frills fanning back like wings, or buttoned low on the triceps for an off-the-shoulder drape.
In a market filled with five-figure gowns, Honor’s will be competitively priced. Full looks start at $2,000 and top out around $12,000, or slightly higher with added embellishments. Find out how to place special orders at honornyc.com; Stone Fox Bride will also carry a few exclusive pieces.

