A Look at Spring 2018's Attention-Grabbing Runways


Technology Is Coming for the Fashion Industry—​Whether They Like It or Not


For the 24th year, ELLE's Women in Hollywood issue highlights the biggest names in the industry right now—and delves deeper into these women's stories. Here, get a sneak peek of what Jennifer Lawrence, Laura Dern, Jessica Chastain, Margot Robbie, Tessa Thompson, Riley Keough, Cicely Tyson, and Kathleen Kennedy had to say in ELLE's November issue on newsstands October 17.


“In my twenties, the characters I was asked to play were limited by, well, she’s just a girl—she doesn’t mean it or she doesn’t know who she is. So I’m starting to play women who just don’t know how to do it—they’re not girls, but they haven’t figured it out, still. That’s so relatable! I’m having the time of my life.”


“I think our ideas about what a young black person or a young Mexican person or a young white person should be like weren’t as expansive then as they are now. It made me think I had to fit into a box. The one-dimensional girlfriend or the sassy black friend—those weren’t going to work for me.”


“The only time I find myself worrying about the result is when I’m filming, because I’m working all day, and then I come home and my brain’s just like, What should we panic about? After I’ve finished the process, though, it’s done for me. I’ve done my work, and I’ve gotten what I need to get out of it—I’ve fulfilled myself. What happens next doesn’t really matter.”


“For me, it’s for finding and creating opportunities for women and minority groups that might not have an outlet, whether it be as a writer or an actor or a director. It’s important to me to create these stepping stones.”


“At the very beginning of my career, I had a teacher whose name was Vinnette Carroll; she directed a number of Broadway shows. She kept saying to me, “You know the problem with beautiful women? They tend to rely on their beauty.” And I said, How wrong she is! I never think of myself as being beautiful. I thought, What are you talking about? I work so hard. And I did. But I learned from her how important it is to learn your craft. When all else fails, you will land on that, and that alone.”


“I never thought I’d want to be a producer. I’d always wanted to direct and write, but I got to a point as an actress where I felt like I was everyone’s puppet. I thought, Why don’t I get a say in the art I’m making?”


“I’d like to make the story more interesting and say it was a really difficult thing for me to do…but I don’t find nudity difficult. America feels very…Oh my God, boobs! But I wasn’t squeamish.”


New York Fashion Week is about half over, which means the season has barely begun, and so far it's been such an eclectic mix—lace and satin slipdresses and tops at Givenchy's much-debated 9/11 show, set on a pier in the shadow of One World Trade Center and illuminated at dusk by the twin beams that shoot into the sky commemorating the fallen towers and the human beings who died that day. Then there was Tommy Hilfiger's breezy island girl; Alex Wang's masterful elucidation of the cool girl, even as he celebrated his tenth anniversary—making him what? A new old guy? An old new guy?—and Carolina Herrera's beautiful, poetic pink parade of couture shapes and light-as-air confections that played as well to the young birds lighting up the lower step in the determinedly uptown space, the Frick Collection, as they did to the professionals and doyennes lining the outer perimeter, just taking it all in.


At ELLE, we've always asserted that fashion is tribal, but that's getting even more and more evident. Five days into the spring shows, nothing resembling a "trend" (you know, whatever happens in threes, or is it fives now?) has yet to fully assert itself, which is a good thing. Trends have always been slightly déclassé if taken at face value; the line between fashion savant and fashion victim can be dangerously thin. It's the interpreters—the editors, the musicians, the actors, the It Boys and Girls, heck, even the pretty girls on the downtown 2 train—who take what the runway gives us and spin it into something personal, and often every bit as relevant as what the designer had in mind at his or her show.


It's our Women in Hollywood issue that puts me in mind of all this—talk about a tribe! What will they all wear to our annual event in October, where we bring together some of our favorite members: eight extraordinary women whose work deserves a moment of praise and reflection for illuminating the many realities of what it means to be a woman right now. That said, one thing that's happened every couple of years is that someone will get up during the evening—honoring, this year, Carey Mulligan, Amy Schumer, Gena Rowlands, Kate Winslet, Alicia Vikander, Salma Hayek, Dakota Johnson, and Ava DuVernay—and say, "Can't I just be a Hollywood actor, director, screenwriter? Do I have to be in a special pen for just girls?" My first response is, Okay, I get that. I too find it irritating that there's a dividing line in my own business between "media" and "women's media." Content for men—movies, magazines, websites, TV channels—well, that's for "everybody." But the truth is, and I'm quoting the New York Times' excellent Manohla Dargis' January 25 column here: "Only 4.4 percent of the top 100 box-office domestic releases between 2002 and 2012 were directed by women. In 2012, only 28.4 percent of all onscreen speaking characters in the top 100 were women. If you thought women in movies don't have much of a voice, you're right." Everyone on our Hollywood list has made it far enough to be in a position to set her own professional course, but it's sort of like Congress: If less than 20 percent of the decision makers are female, what makes you think your interests are being fully represented? And if you're getting only 28 percent of the screen time, what makes you comfortable that the full range of female experience is being communicated and, therefore, accepted and understood?


Future generations might find themselves puzzling over women-only honors as relics from an unfathomably sexist era, but even if we're running everything by then, I think it will still be worthwhile to applaud the specific contributions of women, especially those making art. I'm actually quite proud that this is a female-oriented endeavor—both the Women in Hollywood Awards and ELLE. This issue, we've got femmes galore and tackle practically every aspect of the XX condition: Lauren Slater writes a gorgeously humane—and erotically charged—essay about falling in love with another woman as her marriage to a man deteriorates; celebrated poet Claudia Rankine has an insightful conversation with Pulitzer Prize–winning critic Margo Jefferson about her new memoir centered on her upbringing among Chicago's black upper class in the 1950s and '60s; and Amanda Fortini extols the carnal power and just plain power of the femme fatale—and issues a plea to Hollywood to update the archetype for today. (Let's hope it's a female director who takes her up on it and makes the new Double Indemnity or Basic Instinct.) We've even found the lipstick, blush, and eye pencil that look good on every woman (and man, if he wishes), regardless of skin, hair, or eye color—all ravishingly displayed on page 226. Our two beautiful fashion portfolios, shot by David Bellemere and styled by ELLE fashion director Samira Nasr, feature extraordinary models, Cora Emmanuel and Melodie Monrose, who epitomize the ELLE woman: beautiful, strong, not timid, not afraid to laugh—and, well, damn, they look good in those clothes!


Now that it's October, pumpkins are everywhere, the air is crisper and Halloween is creeping closer (pun intended). Besides the fact that it's officially fall, all of this can really only mean one important thing: it's finally sweater season. And if you're still on the hunt for some cozy clothing, Everlane is here to ease your woes. Starting Oct. 9, the brand is launching six new $100 cashmere styles, all in a variety of colors.


Last year, due to the declining cost of raw cashmere, Everlane lowered its prices in attempts to show "a new level of radical transparency," according to the company. Since cashmere costs have remained low, the company was able to bring back its $100 deal, but this time in even more styles.


As soon as Viola Davis opens her mouth to speak, you know you better pay attention. The Oscar-winning actress has earned a reputation for giving the most inspiring speeches and last night at the Time 100 gala, she did not disappoint. Tasked with giving a toast, Viola took the opportunity to tell a story about the time she went on a cultural safari in Africa and met women of the Mandinka tribe in Gambia. She recounted being enthralled by their community and rituals and related it to being surrounded by fellow honorees in attendance.


"Everybody in this room, I'm sure, at some point has gone through something in their lives and you survived it. But not only did you survive it. You took that trauma, that hurt, that revelation, that whatever it was and you used it to connect, to give, to influence. To help," she said, "And that is the beauty and the purpose of what we are here on this earth to do."




